---
id: 176
title: Finding a new suit.
date: 2019-01-01T12:45:04+00:00
author: Eric Gebhart
layout: post
guid: http://tangobreath.com/?p=176
permalink: /Finding-a-new-suit/
categories:
  - Article
  - Video
tags:
  - argentine tango
  - awareness
  - body awareness
  - embrace
  - Hedy Schleifer
  - Helium Balloon
  - movement
  - posture
  - practice
  - relationship
  - suit
  - tango
  - tango class
  - TangoBreath
---
# This talk is about relationships and life, everything in it also applies to tango.

I'm sitting in my petite hotel room in Turin as I write this, I'm leaving on the train 
to visit a friend in Nimes in an hour. It has been an interesting week.
I recently moved this website, which was deleted last year, from wordpress to jekyll. In the process
I've been cleaning house. I still have a ways to go. Videos are not working yet, and I have some 
editing to do.  I decided to start with my first post and go chronologically through each post.

These posts are an interesting window into the life I had then. Life was good. It was full, everything was in equilibrium, Love, Work, life in general.  The tango community was growing, I was practicing yoga, mountain unicycling, and hiking several times a week, and I was in love. Life was full and positive. 

It didn't last. The last posts here are from 2014, when day to day life
was taking more than it was giving. Rock bottom for me was 2 years ago,
Christmas Eve. 24-12-2016.  How I got there is not all that important. 

As I rewatched _Hedy's_ video from my 
[first post](2011-10-05-the-space-between-us) 
I was reminded about the things we accumulate in our being. This is the stuff
that makes us who we are right now, this moment.  

I had exchanged my "good suit" for an ill fitting one. I had accumulated a pile of
negative things in my being, my essence as _Hedy_ puts it in her video **The Power of Connection**. 
This new suit of mine was more like a straight jacket.

I could still dance tango well, that was a different suit I used for dancing. At least I had that. But my daily life essence was not healthy at all. I would argue that even my tango suffered. I've definitely sunk
into some deep holes at a tango event where I should have been happy.

Who am I?  How do I become my true self? 
It's been a journey, and I'm not done yet. But I'm getting there.

There are a few things that neuroscience has proven to actually work.

  * Be grateful and show it. Express your gratefulness to others anytime you feel it.
  * Name bad emotions and feelings, Call them out, recognize them. 
  * Make more Decisions.  Don't let your decisions be made for you. Choose!
  * Touch people. physically, nicely, affectionately.  Tango is good for that.
  
  That might be all you really need, but I'm going to add one more, become more lucky. 
  
  * Take more risks. This is what lucky people do, it's why they are lucky. Be lucky too.
  
  But is that enough? Maybe. But here's another one that _Hedy_ also talks about. It's also
  something that tango requires of us, without it tango would not be tango.:
  
  * Be present in the moment, and with others.
 


A TED talk about relationships by **Hedy Schleifer, The Power of Connection.**

## We create momentary relationships with everyone we dance with, and the expectations we bring into the embrace color that relationship.

While this talk is about relationships and life, everything in it also applies to tango. At the very least we create momentary relationships with everyone we dance with, and the expectations we bring into the embrace color that relationship. Our expectations can pollute the space between us in the dance just as the expectations and disappointments we collect pollute the relationships we have in life.

## The space between us and our life is our body

But the correlations don&#8217;t stop there. I&#8217;m particularly fond of Hedy&#8217;s rendition of one of her father&#8217;s stories about Mr. Goldberg the tailor. Our life, our history and everything in it has a very personal relationship with each of us, the difference is that the space between us and our life is our body. We can pollute our body just as we can pollute our relationships.

## The result is like an ill fitting suit, that just happens to be our body

But our body has a very physical reaction, it becomes stiff, it hunches, slouches and wrenches, it shuffles, waddles, and bounces. It can build a shield of ego, or become timid, it can be cold, distant and angry, all of these things build upon us, and are in no way healthy. The result is like an ill fitting suit, that just happens to be our body.  These things become our greatest obstacle in learning Argentine tango, as well as living life. To stand tall, move smoothly with confidence, and at the same time not be blinded by ego, these are difficult things after a lifetime of mental pollution.

## Through Argentine tango, we are all getting rid of our ill fitting, life essence distorting, suits.

Argentine tango made me aware of my own body&#8217;s accumulation of physical pollution, it is something I am still working to eradicate.  &#8220;My head is like a helium ballon on a string, stretching my spine straight up into the sky.&#8221;

In our TangoBreath class we see how our students also become aware of, and struggle for release from, their own personally imposed limitations.  It is one of the most rewarding things about our TangoBreath practice, as the weeks go by we are witness to amazing growth and self realization and awareness.  TangoBreath practice changes us in ways that are not specific to tango movement, but in everyday posture and movement.  The practice permeates our everyday life.  We are all getting rid of our ill fitting, life essence distorting, suits.

Meet your partner in the middle of the embrace, with your unencumbered essence.

Enjoy the video, it is one of my favorites.  Hedy is a wonderful speaker.

[The Power of Connection - Hedy Schleifer](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HEaERAnIqsY)

